---
tags:
  - INFO
  - Linux-Directories
---

## [/lib](https://refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/FHS_3.0/fhs/ch03s09.html)

is a place for the essential standard libraries. Think of libraries required for your system to run. If something in `/bin` or `/sbin` needs a library that library is likely in `/lib`.

## [/usr/lib](https://refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/FHS_3.0/fhs/ch04s06.html)

the `/usr` directory in general is as it sounds, a user based directory. Here you will find things used by the users on the system. So if you install an application that needs libraries they might go to `/usr/lib`. If a binary in `/usr/bin` or `/usr/sbin` needs a library it will likely be in `/usr/lib`.


> [!NOTE] Note
> Contains architecture-independent libraries with names of the form `lib*.a`. 
> 
> The `/lib` directory in `/`  is a symbolic link to the `/usr/lib` directory, so all files that were once in the `/lib` directory are now in the `/usr/lib` directory. This includes a few nonlibrary files for compatibility.


## [/var/lib](https://refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/FHS_3.0/fhs/ch05s08.html)

the `/var` directory is the writable counterpart to the `/usr` directory which is often required to be read-only. So `/var/lib` would have a similar purpose as `/usr/lib` but with the ability to write to them.


> Files in `/lib` and `/usr/lib` are supposed to be mostly `read only` and are identical between systems.
> 
> Files in `/var` are specific to the local system and frequently contain data that is generated by system operation.
> 
> Typically distribution versions of templates for config files can be found in `/usr/lib` and can be used to create localized versions of config files in `/etc` or possibly `/var`.